foreign
[Music]
accomplishment where we explore how
deepening connection with ourselves and
others leads to creating the life we
want with enjoyment and ease
[Music]
welcome back everybody
the holiday season is in full swing and
it's likely that many of you are
gathering with family this week so
today's episode is a family episode and
joining us is Joe's daughter Esme Esme
was given a school assignment to make a
podcast about where she came from by
interviewing a person from her family
about a meaningful experience in their
life
Esme decided to deviate from that task
and follow her interest she wanted to
know what it was like for her dad to
raise her when her assignment was
complete Joe asked her if it was all
right to make it available to the
community and to our listeners so as May
agreed and what follows is the touching
interview between Esme and her dad Joe I
hope you enjoy it
thanks for coming on to the podcast Dad
I really appreciate it of course
I'd love I love spending time with you
in any way that I can
appreciate it yeah
wait wait wait wait I think we should
tell everybody what's your day what's
the day today
it's my birthday
it's your birthday congratulations and
he took me out to out to breakfast it
was delicious
I'm glad it was a it was a breakfast
place that we
that you've been going to since you were
like one year old when Mom needed to
sleep I would carry you there and we
haven't been in years it was it was such
a great idea that you had to go there
thank you for that it was really nice to
be back yeah um
I have a question for you yeah go ahead
what is it how would you describe the
work that you do what what is it in your
words
who I mean the world calls it coaching
you know so that's what if you need to
explain it to somebody that's the way I
would explain it is my dad's a whatever
an executive coach
um but the work the way I would describe
the work is on an intellectual level
we're teaching people to
be kind to themselves with you know have
a relationship with the voice in their
head that is gentle and kind and
eventually just dissipates
on the emotional level
the work that I do is all about
emotional fluidity it's about allowing
people to fall in love with all of their
emotions
and and find the genius in all of their
emotional experiences and not to avoid
them and then on a nervous system level
it's all about helping people feel safe
and loved
so that I mean that's a short yeah
thanks
I appreciate hearing how you describe it
because I never know exactly what to say
when people ask
yeah neither do I
I remember one time we were I was at
some uh conference and um
I was with a friend who does similar
work and somebody everybody asked you
know what do you do at these conferences
and his response was I help people how
to I help people die in peace
that's one way of putting it yeah
um
okay so I grew up around this work and
yeah you did yeah yeah and around a lot
of people going through big emotions and
stuff like that yeah and yeah I was
wondering what what was it like to raise
a kid in that environment it's a very
welcoming open environment and raising
kids is not it's not easy so how was it
to have that Community surrounding you
well You Raise Me
it made it easier I mean the the last
part of your question about how was it
to have a community around you it was
you know there's a when you do this kind
of work on yourself there's just more
love and peace and joy and freedom and
so
we've been really fortunate because
since that's how we are that's what we
attract and so
there's most of the people who spend
time in the house that you got to hear
work do the work either
doing work with us or vice versa you
know they're just loving caring
playful fun joyful individuals so
I think on that level it was just
amazing
um
and
I think there's also something that
you're asking me which is I would say I
would reverse it which is
I would say raising you was
um I'm gonna get
I'm gonna have emotions I can feel
myself while I end up raising you was
like the work meaning like
there is a way in which all the work
that we've done up until you were born
was
you know it was like it was I I don't
want to say in the head because it
wasn't but it was
it wasn't practical it wasn't real world
it wasn't
you know you could fool yourself you
could sit on a meditation pillow and
fool yourself but if you're raising a
kid you can't fool yourself like if you
get all frustrated at an infant you know
so
so the main thing I would say is that
for me you were you and your sister were
one of the greatest teachers that I've
ever had and
and and I I luckily we found things like
hand-in-hand parenting and simplicity
and parenting which helped us you know
help guide us
but for me that was you know the most
important work that I ever did was was
Raising you from from my own freedom for
my own Joy
feel your own Joy
yeah
yeah you can't you can't fool yourself
when you have two two kids as results
you can't pull yourself like if you're
frustrated with your kid you know or if
you're you know you you you were born
with colic and you would just yell for
like four or five hours every night it
was brutal right like you can pretend
you're at peace you can pretend you're
awake you know but
yeah yeah
how patient are you really yeah exactly
um but I would say but to answer your
question directly what was it like I
mean it was interesting there was
definitely moments like I remember you
were seven years old I think maybe eight
and
there's somebody on the couch doing the
work with Mom or I and um
and you would do things like yell from
the other room just let it in or stop
being defensive stop resisting you would
like because you'd I'm pretty confident
you can tell me you would like listen at
the door and you would want to know
about these conversations I was
listening to the whole oh listen to the
whole thing yeah yeah and occasionally
you can help yourself you just like yell
at the person which was always disarming
his heck for the person who was like
oh wow the the nine-year-old in the
other room gets it and I'm pretending I
don't you know that was
so so that part was really cool that was
part was really cool and also it was
really cool to see
the other thing that's been really
interesting is to watch you
like you're 16 now and on one level 17.
oh sorry you're 17 now
and uh and uh and you're and your
um and you're very 17 in many many ways
and then there's another way where
you're very not 17 right where where
there's a some there's some ways in
which you have an emotional
understanding or an understanding of the
voice in your head
that is I know tons and tons of adults
that don't have it and so that's been
really interesting too because it's
like on one level you've I've watched
you mature differently than other you
know folks in your community and I've
seen both the stress of that and the
the on you and also the joy of that for
you so that's been an interesting thing
to to know to know that we were raising
you so different from society that
there is going to be challenges for you
as you grew up and still choosing to do
that yeah
yeah to it
you know being brought up differently
than other kids and being brought up
with an emotional understanding that
isn't common in society have you seen
that impact the way I navigate the world
emotionally especially as a teenager
yeah yeah so I mean I'll tell you a
couple early stories and then I'll see
the teenage story so the
the early stories were things like you
know you were really interested in doing
a silent Retreat when you were nine you
know because you knew about my
meditation and everything and
as you know we looked all over to find
somebody who would let you do a silent
retreat with me and we luckily you know
we had friends in Tennessee who ran a
retreat center so we did a silent
Retreat there
and one one cute story that I want to
tell is like at the end of it I was like
I was like hey so what was your favorite
part it was like three and a half days
right of silence and and you said I
think it was Asylum no it was the fact
that you couldn't tell me what to do for
three and a half days
I remember that actually
I ate so much banana bread so much
banana oh you did yeah and the other
thing is at the end of it you know you
said oh Dad I know what a metaphor is
now which is interesting because
cognitively you weren't supposed to know
what a metaphor was it whatever it was
nine years old like it's not something
that you're
brain is supposed to get yet as far as
development and so but the reason I tell
that story is because when you came home
it was like I don't know two or three
weeks later
you said
um I don't want to do meditation anymore
it's making me too different from my
friends
and so remember when that happened yeah
what was that what was it yeah what was
the event that triggered that
um I remember being in school and my
teacher who had known that I went
because I missed school for it I believe
she asked me she said how was the silent
Meditation Retreat and I got made fun of
by all of my friends yeah
and I wanted I was interested in having
a conversation about how I felt with my
teacher after The Meditation Retreat but
I didn't feel safe enough in that
environment to share because I thought I
would be bullied for for having that
experience
oh that's fascinating
right right I somehow thought it was
like that you were seeing that you saw
the world too differently
I didn't know it was about being bullied
um well I would have treated it
differently
well I think it was about being bullied
and also because
I mean growing up whenever there's a
conflict between two two kids in school
I was always the mediator the teacher
would bring me in and I would mediate
because we always got through conflict
way quicker
yeah and I think I I think I realized
that being the mediator it was fun and
it was interesting to watch people you
know work through conflicts and
everything but it was making me feel
like separated from my class because
yeah you know being around that type of
work it's hard to understand if you
weren't raised that way
yeah I mean that I remember that was the
Second Story I was going to tell from
your childhood was that that was the
moment that you
were like you really like doing that
work for a very short period of time and
then you were like no I don't like it it
creates too much separation between me
and the other kids and
and and I remember us supporting you
like yeah just tell the teacher you
don't want to do that don't don't do
that anymore like be a kid and yeah and
so that was it so those moments those
were like the tough moments the the
non-tough moments are like right now you
and I are doing a podcast
you haven't you know I don't think I've
ever done a podcast before recorded
yourself before you you know I gave you
a couple pointers you figured out the
technology here you are doing it and
you're not self-conscious you and I are
just sitting here having a conversation
and so that's the positive stuff right
the positive stuff is that you're very
self-possessed you're incredibly
confident
you
um have a high standard for who your
friends are you have a high standard for
any kind of love interest you are
incredibly open and honest with me
about everything that you
um do or I would assume not everything
but I mean more than most things
honestly yeah right and
um
and we have like very for the right
conversations and I I just enjoy your
company and
I'm not worried about you
um
doing in things that are going to get
you in trouble or where I'd have to
worry about you I feel just very
confident in Your Capacity overall
and it feels like now that you're a
teenager the only really the only
pointers
I'm giving you our kind of adult skills
right the only feel like the only thing
I feel like my job left to do is to
teach you like okay here's a here's how
you get a really big project done here's
how you
deal with you know people dismissing you
here's how you deal with you know social
politics Etc like just and we get to
talk about adult lessons and that
besides that it's just like a lot of
love and connection
and so now it feels really great and
I still think that you know Finding
you'll find great people but you're not
going to have the capacity I think the
older you get the
the more Persnickety you're gonna be
around the quality of folks that you
surround yourself by I think you'll
still respect and love people but I
think it's going to get more picky for
you about who you actually want to spend
time with
yeah that's the thing that's a little
hard on my heart is that there's not a
community of people who are raised like
you who can you know be with you in that
way
it is sometimes a little bit lonely to
yeah not feel like I'm being met on the
same level of connection that I want to
meet people with yeah okay
there's some people though who I found
which is really nice
they can meet me on that level I'm I'm
the most important too I'll I'll tell
you a funny story I was finishing
groundbreakers last time and you know
sometimes you say something where like
it just it just like lays flat in the
room and uh right they're usually my
favorite things that I've said and uh
but there's a group of people and
somebody somebody asked why do you do
this and I said I do this because
through groundbreakers there's a there
we're creating an environment where a
whole bunch of people can accept all the
love that I want to give
and
that there's truth to that there's also
truth to like I have a I take a great
pleasure in helping
folks lead the life that they want to
lead
um but it it was like to some degree
even I think your mom and I do this work
so that we can create an environment
where there's that much love and
openness that creates a community around
us with that much love and openness
I mean it created a community around me
we have Mina Lee and so many others who
I don't think we'd ever be in connection
with if it wasn't for the work it really
it's allowed us to find really amazing
beautiful people
it's true yeah we're really really
blessed that way
yeah
thank you Dad I I do have one more
actually that I'm really curious to know
the answer to yeah I I'm wondering that
how you see me navigate difficult
situations especially emotional
situations with the knowledge of
or just like being raised around people
who are okay diving into really
uncomfortable emotional situations and
talking through them and working through
them instead of
building up those emotions and getting
resentful and stuff like that how have
you seen navigate difficult situations
with that prior knowledge
yeah I
I would say in 90 of all things I see
you navigate it without trying you know
I I see you
um interact with whatever social
politics or gamesmanship that's
happening or with teachers especially
with adults especially you
I seem to
just be able to meet them where they are
and to stay in yourself and allow the
emotions to be smooth I mean just the
other night I remember you were having a
hard time and I was saying something to
to comfort you I think and maybe make
you feel better I was definitely on that
edge where we we don't particularly like
going and you were looked at me and
you're like Dad I just need to be sad
you don't need to take care of that and
it was like wow you know like that's
your
level of understanding I remember also
like the first time you broke up with a
boyfriend
you know when you came to the car where
I was picking you up and you held my
hand and you were crying and you said
dad you always taught me that heartbreak
helps your capacity or helps you helps
you love the allowing heartbreak helps
you love but you never told me it could
feel so good
and there's moments like that where it's
just like I mean I feel so grateful and
dumbfounded by your capacity
where I see you still struggle with kind
of with that emotional
not emotional fluidity is where you
don't feel capable where some adult
tries to make you small
in a project that you care about or
um there's a class where you have a
teacher who doesn't know how to meet you
and
and you start feeling like you're not
capable of the class instead of feeling
like oh the teacher isn't capable of
teaching me the way I need to be taught
and and you start to get hard on
yourself like you don't want to find out
that you might fail or there or like you
don't want to have to confront this
aspect of you that's like not capable or
feels helpless or something so there's
something there and it's and it's the
only place I see you
it's the only place I see you kind of
shy away from a difficult emotional
experience and but in all other places I
see and I think it's totally natural so
there's no criticism in that but
in any other way that I see you
um I just see you lean right into the
difficult emotion with friends and
and with family with friends around the
table
yeah
and and I see that you laugh a
tremendous amount like there's so much
joy and laughter in you and to me that's
like the
that biggest sign you know I have that
quote that Joy is the matriarch of a
family of emotions and she won't come
into a house where her children aren't
welcome and so when I see the level of
joy that you get to that you bring into
life not fake niceness not fake
happiness but just like natural easeful
Joy
that's really the sign and I see that as
long as you're getting some exercise and
eating pretty well I just see that I
just see that as like your
it's like your natural most most
authentic state so that's that's really
cool to see that
I feel so seen by you right now
uh I really like seeing you
it is
so you're ungrateful
to be seen by my dad you know
yeah I'm so grateful for our
relationship I yeah
I am crying yes I I can't even begin to
tell you yeah
yeah I love you deeply and
I remember when I was
um
I remember when you were young and I was
not so you know Mom was amazing with you
when you were younger and I was
definitely not capable and
um she was teaching me and we were
learning and but she she somehow knew
where we were supposed to go and I was
somehow didn't take long for me to let
her lead us and um
but I remember you know the older folks
folks my age now would be like ah you're
gonna hate it when they leave and I'd be
like what are you talking about I mean
just get me a good night's sleep I'm
like what are you saying and now I'm
just like why it it is I think it'll be
the biggest heartbreak of my life you
you and your sister leaving the house
you know I I just so enjoy your company
and obviously it has to happen
it's just it's just gonna be there's
going to be a lot of crime in our house
when you guys go
yeah I don't know what I'm gonna do I'm
gonna have to call you up and be like
Dad
I have this I have this thing I need to
process I hope so I hope I'm not lucky
yeah
awesome
all right dear thank you for coming out
okay is that it yeah I think that covers
it yeah thank you so much for coming on
of course
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
[Music]